Freecad noob engraving tutorial

This is a very vertical tutorial. It assumes you are impatient like me and you know a little about setting up the 
Cubiko but maybe nothing about FreeCAD, and you might say "Dammit, I just want to do a simple engraving with open
source software, how hard can that be???"

Setup

1. Use 2.8mm plywood
2. Clamp to base with lug under screw
3. Chuck 20 degree V-bit
4. Run Z-probe from panel with alligator clip on spindle (which is not rotating)
4b. Connect in Candle and move Z to safe height
5. Using panel, Candle or app move X and Y to approximately over left front corner of workpiece
6. If using panel, check step - default is xC (10mm), change to 1
7. Move Z down in 1mm increments while watching carefully until visually close (around 1mm) from surface. Adjust X and Y if necessary.
8. Change step to 0.1mm
9. Put a piece of paper under bit and move Z down in 0.1mm increments until the paper is gently caught between the bit and the wood
10. Zero X, Zero Y, Zero Z
11. Go to safe Z position (should be 30mm above surface - can be less if not using dust shoe)

Freecad

Set up workpiece

1. Edit / Preferences / General - under Default unit system select "Metric small parts & CNC (mm, mm/min)". Click OK.
2. File / New
3. Select the Sketcher workbench (dropdown in top left)
4. Click the "Create Sketch" toolbar icon and select "XY plane" and OK. Now you're in the sketch tool.
5. Select rectangle tool. Start from origin point and go to 85x85mm (easiest to type in the numbers, 85, tab, 85, enter)
6. Close sketch

We won't do anything with this sketch - it's just a guide for the size of the workpiece.

Create engraving text

1. Select Draft workbench
2. Select Shape from string
3. Click on where you want the lower-left corner of text to start on the workpiece (something like X=4, Y=5 might be good; use x=10,y=10 if you want to make a box around the text)
4. Enter whatever you like for string. We're using Ahoy!
5. Height is the height of capital letters, not including descenders like p and g. 10mm is a good choice and it's the default.
6. For font file you need an actual ttf file. We're using Bitstream Vera Bold (VeraBd.ttf) Click OK when done and the object will appear.
7. After creating the object, you can modify everything in the Property view under the Data tab. To change the placement go to Placement / Position
8. Compare your text to the sketch we made for the 85x85 material outline and make sure everything is in bounds
9. Click on your ShapeString in the Tree view then F2 to rename it. Rename it to Ahoy

(Optional) Create a box around the text

1. Select Sketcher workbench
2. Make sure the ShapeString we just created isn't selected. Click anywhere outside the ShapeString object in the main window.
3. Click the "Create Sketch" icon in the toolbar, Sketch orientation: XY plane, then OK
4. Select the rectangle tool. Click and drag from one corner to another then let go. You should have a rectangle around your text.
5. If you need to adjust the size of the rectangle, Esc to get out of "adding new rectangle" mode so you can drag the corner handles
   until the rectangle encloses the text just as you want it.
6. Skip this next step if you don't want rounded corners.
7. Select the Fillet icon from the toolbar then click once on each of the four corners.
8. Click Close to finish editing the sketch
9. Click on your Sketch001 in the tree view and F2 to rename it. Rename it to TextBox.


Prepare CNC job

1. Select CAM workbench
2. Click the Job icon to create a job. If you didn't already have Ahoy and TextBox selected, you can check them under 2D. We don't need the workpiece
   guide sketch. Click OK to close the job creation dialog.
3. The job edit dialog has many tabs. Initially we're in the Setup tab. 
4. Leave Extend Model's Bounding Box selected but set all 6 values to 0 starting with Ext. X
5. Go to the Output tab. Select an output filename (the nc extension is common for gcode) and change the processor to GRBL.
6. Go to the Tools tab. Click TC: Default tool then Edit to bring up the Tool Controller Editor
7. Enter Horizontal feed 800, Vertical feed 50, spindle 6000 and click OK to close the TC editor
8. Click OK in the Job edit to finish creating the job. Now there is a job with operations and other sub-objects. It won't do anything yet -
   we still have to add operations.

Add engraving operations

1. Click the Engrave icon from the toolbar
2. Click on Depths and enter Start Depth as 0. (Click on blue circle then enter 0)
3. We'll engrave to a depth of 1.0mm in 5 steps. Enter final depth as -1.0 and step down as 0.2
4. Click OK to close the engrave operations dialog

Simulate

1. Click on Job in the tree view, then from the app menu Cam / Cam simulator
2. Click the play button in the path simulator dialog
3. Click cancel to close the simulator. We don't need to save the simulation.

You don't have to do this every time, it's just good to know it's there if you're not sure whether the CNC tool will do what you want.

Save the gcode

1. Click on job in the tree view, then click the Post process icon in the toolbar
2. You will get a preview of the gcode that will be sent. Click OK to continue.
3. Click OK to confirm the save as location.

Finished with Freecad

Candle

1. File / open / select the gcode output from Freecad (with the nc extension)
2. A preview will be shown in the visualizer.
3. Look at device state Work coordinates. X, Y and Z should be where you expect.
4. click Send.

